---
layout: post
title:  How I discovered I'm the most neurotic Computer Scientist (and Lightning Talks!) 
when:   2017-01-17
time:   "19:00"
venue:  "T/0.31, School of Computer Science & Informatics, Cardiff University"
---

# [Martin Chorley](https://twitter.com/martinjc): "How I discovered I'm the most neurotic Computer Scientist".


A topic of interest within the [MoBiSoc](http://users.cs.cf.ac.uk/R.M.Whitaker/) research team at Cardiff is how human psychology relates to the way we interact with computer systems, and how psychological principles can be used within those systems. In the last few years we've built a couple of experiments based on Django to investigate these areas, and invited people to submit themselves for examination. In this talk I'll explain the sorts of things we've done, how we did them and what we found, including: if you want to spread propaganda on Twitter, target people via the users they already know, and if you want to hang around with a bunch of open and conscientious but slightly neurotic individuals, maybe come visit the School of Computer Science & Informatics.

There will be: live coding, and (if they still work) some demos of the experiments.

There will not be: too many mentions of beer.


# Lightning Talks

As usual, we'll be having Lightning talks at this session - if anyone would like to give a short (~5 minutes) talk on any topic, just let us know!


# Location

This month's venue is T/0.31 in the School of Computer Science & Informatics. Enter the complex through the main gates and follow the awesome signs!

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d2484.5563658121855!2d-3.1726044842308547!3d51.4846569796314!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x486e1cb8742c46f5%3A0xc620b871e5d19cac!2sTrevithick+Bldg%2C+Cardiff+CF24!5e0!3m2!1sen!2suk!4v1456917752266" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen>&nbsp;</iframe>
